---
The rise of “big data” on cloud computing: {Review} and open research issues
hashem_rise_2015
The continued increase in volume of data from IoT, social media, and multimedia has produced an overwhelming flow of data in either structured or unstructured data formats. Cloud computing has been a significant shift in how big data can be processed at scale. Cloud computing can minimize the code  and restriction for automation and distributed computation for individuals wwhile reducing infrastructure and upkeep costs. Cloud computing also allowed for highly scalable and elastic environment such as IBM, Azure, or AWS. Virtualization is generally the driving fource behind these technologies.

Big data is the term used to refer to increase in volume of data that is difficult to store, process, and analyze. The author goes on to note that there have been various terms for big data, but in general the following is accepted. Volume refers to the amount of all types of data generated from difference sources or sensors and continues to expand. Much of this data is be generated from mobile sensors such as cell phones. Variety of data refers to the different types of data collected via sensors. Velocity refers to the speed of data transfer between different components. Value refers to the ability to mine information from large to huge data sets that was previously impossible before.

The author then classifies Big Data in the following way: Data sources (web, IoT, sensing, etc), Content Format (structured, unstructured, semi-structured), Date Stores (document-oriented, column-oriented, graph based. key-value), Data Staging (cleaning, normalization, transform), Data Processing (batch, real time).

Cloud computing generally consist of the following models: PaaS, SaaS, and IaaS. Mobile devices generally use cloud computing to offload data management and computations.

The relationship between cloud computing and big data is the requirement for distributed fault tolerant database and processing models which often utilize clusters of computer resources to find a desired result or computation.

The author then provides case studies for the different types of cloud platforms and services that different companies use.

There is a short discussion on big data storage systems such that traditional RDBMS systems. This section mainly focuses on hadoop based systems with HDFS and MapReduce.

The author then concludes with a set of research challenges such as scalability, availability, data integrity, transformation, data quality, heterogeneity, privacy, legal/regulatory issues, and governance. The author also includes several open research issues as data staging, distributed storage systems, data analysis, and data security.  
